Import credit scoring project (#223)
zenml-io/zenml-projects: credit-scorer/README.md

Author: why the need for whylabs/whylogs instructions? It's in the `requirements.txt`, there's no extra setup needed. But if you meant including that part just to let users know that we're using whylogs for data profiling, then sure?

Reviewer: but you don't even tell people to use the requirements.txt? either way I don't really mind, but if they're using whylabs don't they need to include it in their stack etc? as in https://docs.zenml.io/stacks/stack-components/data-validators/whylogs ? i.e. stack setup instructions also needed?

# Credit Scoring EU AI Act Demo

> Automatically generate complete EU AI Act compliance documentation with minimal manual effort for credit scoring models.

Reviewer: please add the AI Act link back in :)

Reviewer: actually I sort of liked this first pragraph. at least some of the details.,,

Author: Agreed. Got a little lost in in hyper refactor mode last night.

<div align="center"> <img src="assets/compliance-dashboard.png" alt="Compliance Dashboard" width="800" /> </div>

## 🎯 Regulatory Context

Financial institutions must comply with the EU AI Act for any high‑risk AI system. Meeting Articles 9–18 requires extensive documentation and auditing. This pipeline delivers a production‑ready workflow that:

- Generates all required technical evidence automatically
- Ensures robust risk management and human oversight
- Maintains full audit trails with versioned artifacts
- Provides real‑time compliance dashboards for stakeholders

## 🔍 Data Overview

> This project uses a credit scoring dataset based on the Home Credit Default Risk data. The raw dataset contains potentially sensitive attributes such as `CODE_GENDER`, `DAYS_BIRTH`, `NAME_EDUCATION_TYPE`, `NAME_FAMILY_STATUS`, and `NAME_HOUSING_TYPE`, which can be filtered using the pipeline's `sensitive_attributes` parameter to comply with fairness requirements.

Reviewer: link to the data. and instead of "Risk data" did you mean ..."Risk dataset"?

| --------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------- |
| **[Feature Engineering](src/pipelines/feature_engineering.py)** | **Ingest** → Record SHA‑256 provenance 📥<br>**Profile** → WhyLogs data governance 📊<br>**Preprocess** → Impute, encode, normalize 🔧                     | Arts 10, 12, 15 |
| **[Training](src/pipelines/training.py)**                       | **Train** → LightGBM w/ class‑imbalance handling 🎯<br>**Evaluate** → Accuracy, AUC, fairness analysis ⚖️<br>**Assess** → Risk scoring & model registry 📋 | Arts 9, 11, 15  |
| **[Deployment](src/pipelines/deployment.py)**                   | **Approve** → Human oversight gate 🙋‍♂️<br>**Deploy** → Modal API deployment 🚀<br>**Monitor** → SBOM + post‑market tracking 📈                              | Arts 14, 17, 18 |

> Each pipeline run automatically versions all inputs/outputs, generates profiling reports, creates risk assessments, produces SBOM, and compiles complete Annex IV technical documentation.

Reviewer: people won't know what SBOM is. I think you either have to link or to explain.

python run_dashboard.py
```

> > **Note:** All compliance artifacts are also directly accessible through the ZenML dashboard. The Streamlit dashboard is provided as a convenient additional interface for browsing compliance information interactively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** All compliance artifacts are also directly accessible through the ZenML dashboard. The Streamlit dashboard is provided as a convenient additional interface for browsing compliance information locally and offline.
```

Right? the zenml one is interactive too, if I'm not mistaken?

Author: Oui oui 100%
